+++
title = "Previewing Markdown in the Terminal"
date = 2019-01-03
[taxonomies]
tags = ["terminal", "markdown"]
categories = ["code"]
+++

Here's a little trick - previewing Markdown in your terminal. Odds are if you've tried working on a Markdown doc outside of an editor capable of previewing it, you'll find yourself needing to open it elsewhere to get a sense of what's rendering.<!-- more --> After looking around for a solution to this, I found a few little utilities capable of helping out.

## Pandoc

Pandoc is a utility for converting Markdown files into other formats. By default, it will render markdown into HTML - which is all we actually need for this. There's a slew of other things Pandoc is capable of doing so I highly recommend you [check it out!](https://pandoc.org/). Here's how to install:

**Ubuntu**: `sudo apt-get install pandoc`
**Brew**: `brew install pandoc`

## Lynx

Lynx is a full web browser baked into your terminal. It's strictly a text based browser, so don't expect any fancy animations to start flying over the screen, but nevertheless a cool project! Lynx can be found at [here](https://lynx.browser.org/). Lynx fits the second part of this puzzle by providing a means to render the HTML document generated by Pandoc to our terminal. To install:

**Ubuntu**: `sudo apt-get install lynx`
**Brew**: `brew install lynx`

## And finally, putting it altogether into your `.bashrc` or `.zshrc` (etc).

```shell
export md = pandoc $1 | lynx -stdin

md testing.md
```

That's it. Pandoc builds the HTML, sends it to lynx reading from stdin. Simple and a little bit nifty from time to time. The rendering isn't perfect (after all there are quite a few markdown flavors out there and everyone seems to render just a little bit differently) but it works.
